Update overview + reorganize Rust tutorial (#739)
CryptozombiesHQ/cryptozombie-lessons: en/21/06.md

---
title: Function Declarations
actions: ['checkAnswer', 'hints']
material:
  editor:
    language: rust

>     startingCode: |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    startingCode:
```

      "lib.rs": |
        #![no_std]

        multiversx_sc::imports!();
        multiversx_sc::derive_imports!();

        #[derive(NestedEncode, NestedDecode, TopEncode, TopDecode, TypeAbi)]
        pub struct Zombie<M: ManagedTypeApi> {
            name: ManagedBuffer<M>,
            dna: u64,
        }

        #[multiversx_sc::contract]
        pub trait ZombiesContract {

          #[init]
          fn init(&self) {
            self.dna_digits().set(16u8);
            self.zombies_count().set(1usize);
          }

            // start here

          #[storage_mapper("dna_digits")]
          fn dna_digits(&self) -> SingleValueMapper<u8>;

          #[storage_mapper("zombies_count")]
          fn zombies_count(&self) -> SingleValueMapper<usize>;

          #[storage_mapper("zombies")]
          fn zombies(&self, id: usize) -> SingleValueMapper<Zombie<Self::Api>>;
        }

>     answer: >

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    answer: |
```

      #![no_std]

      multiversx_sc::imports!();
      multiversx_sc::derive_imports!();

      #[derive(NestedEncode, NestedDecode, TopEncode, TopDecode, TypeAbi)]
      pub struct Zombie<M: ManagedTypeApi> {
          name: ManagedBuffer<M>,
          dna: u64,
      }

      #[multiversx_sc::contract]
      pub trait ZombiesContract {

        #[init]
        fn init(&self) {
          self.dna_digits().set(16u8);
          self.zombies_count().set(1usize);
        }

        fn create_zombie(&self, name: ManagedBuffer, dna: u64) {
            self.zombies_count().update(|id| {
              self.zombies(id).set(Zombie { name, dna });
              *id +=1;
            });
        }

        #[storage_mapper("dna_digits")]
        fn dna_digits(&self) -> SingleValueMapper<u8>;
        
        #[storage_mapper("zombies_count")]
        fn zombies_count(&self) -> SingleValueMapper<usize>;

        #[storage_mapper("zombies")]
        fn zombies(&self, id: &usize) -> SingleValueMapper<Zombie<Self::Api>>;
      }
---

## Functions in Rust

A function declaration in Rust looks like the following:

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```rust
```

pub fn eat_hamburgers(&self, amount: u32) {

}
```

> This is a function named `eat_hamburgers` that takes 2 parameters: a reference to `self` and a `u32`. For now the body of the function is empty. Note that we're specifying the function visibility as `public`. Without the `pub` keyword the function would be private, visible only within the entity that implements it.

Reviewer: Please double-check this for accuracy. "visible only within the entity that implements it." -> "visible only within the entity that implements it and its descendants.". Also, consider adding a brief note explaining what a module is.

What is a reference type you ask?

Well, there are three ways in which you can pass an argument to a Rust function:

>  * By value, which means that the ownership over the parameter's value is passed to your function. This blocks the use of the initial parameter once the function call had ended since having it consummed by the function.

Reviewer: Are you sure this is how it works? I have a background in C++, and I find it confusing.

Author: Ownership in rust is quite different than the one of C / C++.

Rust doesn't make local copies of the variable passed but rather passing the ownership of it. This is why if you want to change it and have access to it further ourside yout function you should use a reference, or a mutable reference if you also want to change it inside.

I will explain a bit more clearly

 * By reference, which means that your function is borrowing the value of the parameter. Thus, this doesn't allow the function to change the value of the parameter since it is just `borrowed`. Once the function call finished, the ownership of the parameter returns to its initial owner.
 * By mutable reference, which means that your function is borrowing the value of the parameter and gets the permission to change it. Once the function call finished, the ownership of the parameter returns to its initial owner keeping all changes done inside the function.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Consider adding a preamble. Below, we're moving to a seemingly different topic. Feel free to ignore my comment, if I got it wrong.
```

Author: Maybe not enter too deep the basics of Rust, otherwise we will need to expand a lot this tutorial. This should be about how to work with our framework not how to code in Rust

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```rust
```

pub fn my function(value: u32, reference: &u32, mutable_reference: &mut u32) {
  ...
}
```

> > Note: It's convention (but not required) to start function parameter variable names with an underscore (`_`) if the parameter is not used within the function. We'll use that convention throughout our tutorial.

Reviewer: Sorry, but I don't follow. Why would you pass a parameter that's not used? Also, how is this related to the current topic?

Author: adapted from solidity but no longer required

You would call this function like so from within trait / struct that implements it:

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```rust
```

self.eat_hamburgers(100);
```

Like this from outside the trait that implements it:

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```rust
```

Person::eat_hamburgers(100);
```

Or like this from outside the struct that implements it:

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```rust
```

person.eat_hamburgers(100);
```

> ## Creating a structure type object

Reviewer: Please consider rephrasing this. Not sure what is a structure type object.

In Rust creating a structure type object is done very easy:

```
let given_name = ManagedBuffer::from(b"Bob");
let given_age = 30u32;
let person = Person { name: given_name, age: given_age };
```

> If for example you have a variable whose name is matching the structure field's than the syntax can be simplified:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have a variable whose name matches the structure field's, then the syntax can be simplified as shown below:
```

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```rust
```

let name = ManagedBuffer::from(b"Bob");
let age = 30u32;
let person = Person { name, age };
```
## Using an indexed mapper

> Adding an element to an indexed mapper is done just like adding the an element to the normal one, the only difference being the requirement of the index

Reviewer: Also, are you chaining methods here? If so, consider explaining this and what each function call doesl. Feel free to ignore otherwise :)

```
self.persons(id).set(new_person);

```
## Reading the value of a mapper

> In order to read the value of a `singleValueMapper` we will use the method `get`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To read the value of a `singleValueMapper`, use  the `get` method:
```

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```rust
```

let my_person = self.persons(id).get();

```
## Updating a mapper value

> For updating the value of a mapper we can use the `update` method which expects a closure as parameter. You can see the closure as a no name function which we use to access or to process elements in an advaned way within a data type.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For updating the value of a mapper,  you can use the `update` method which expects a closure as a parameter. You can see the closure as a no-name function that you use to access or process elements in an advanced way within a data type.
```

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```rust
```

let name = ManagedBuffer::from(b"Joe");
let age = 35u32;
let new_person = Person { name, age };

self.persons(id).update(|stored_person| *stored_person = new_person );
```

> Here between `||` we will have the storage type which we can access it under what name we waht, following the operation we want to do to it. Inside the closure we can use variables declared outside. 

Reviewer: I don't really understand what you're trying to say. I suggestion you rephrase it along these lines: `In the example code above,  between the vertical slashes (`|`), we specified the storage type which we can access using the `new_person` variable...`

> > Notice: stored_person is a `&Person` (reference to a Person) reason why in order to access its value we need to dereference it with `*`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Note: The `stored_person` variable is a reference to a `Person` object (`&Person`). To access its value, you must dereference it using `*`.
```

Note that you can make a more complex closure in which you can make more operations. An example of it would be:

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```rust
```

let new_number = 42u32;
let mut old_favorite_number = 0u32;

self.favorite_number(id).update(|number| { 
  old_favorite_number = *number;
  *number = new_number;
});
```

# Put it to the test

In our app, we're going to need to be able to create some zombies. Let's create a function for that.

> The id of the introduced zombie should be stored in a separate storage of type `SingleValueMapper<usize>` called `zombie_count` that increases every time a new zombie is being added. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The id of the new zombie should be stored in a separate storage of type `SingleValueMapper<usize>` named `zombie_count` that increases every time a new zombie is added. 
```

2. Create a function named `create_zombie`. It should take two parameters: **\_name** (a `ManagedBuffer`), and **\_dna** (a `u64`).

> 3. Inside the body the first line  we will write the update for `zombies_count` which will access its value as `id`. Here id doesn't need to be dereferenced, since we access it as `&usize` for the index of `zombies`.

Reviewer: Please consider rephrasing this. It's not clear what the student is expected to do.

> 4. Next we create a new zombie and put it inside the storage inder the `id` index.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Next we create a new zombie and put it inside the storage under the `id` index.
```

> 5. Finally let's not forget to increment the value of `id`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Finally, don't forget to increment the value of `id`.
```
